---
layout: post
title:  "✨ Advent of Code — Day 1 <2021 />"
author: Jefersson Nathan
date:   Sat Apr 19 18:37:54 CEST 2023
categories: [post]
description: "Day 1 - Soner Sweep"
---

## Foundation

The way I've decided to organize the kotlin code for this year's Advent of Code is by creating a class for each day. 
Each class will contain the solutions for part 1 and 2. Generally the class will have a constructor that receives the 
input for the problem and a method that solves the problem. The classes will be named `Day01`, `Day02`, and so on.

The code responsible to run the solutions for each day is actually a test class. The test class will have a test for
each part of the solution. The tests will not be covered in these articles, but you can check the code on our
[codelicia's repository](https://github.com/codelicia/adventofcode/tree/main/2021).

---

## Day 1: Sonar Sweep

If you did not read the problem for the day yet, you can access it [here](https://adventofcode.com/2021/day/1){: 
class="external no-highlight"}. 
There you will learn that submarines are not only used to explore the ocean, but also to search for lost keys.

Let's start by defining a class for the problem. The class will receive the input as a list of integers. The input
is the sonar report. The sonar report is a list of depths. The depths are measured in meters.

{: class="language-kotlin" theme="darcula" from="1" to="3"}
```kotlin
package com.codelicia.advent2021

class Day01(private val sonarReport: List<Int>)

fun main(): Unit = println("Nothing to see here")
```

---

### Part 1

There is someways to solve this problem. The first one that comes to mind is to use a `for` loop to iterate over the
list of depths and count the number of times the depth increases. But I'm not a fan of `for` loops. I prefer to use
functional programming constructs. So, I'll use the `zipWithNext` function to iterate over the list of depths and
count the number of times the depth increases.

{: class="language-kotlin" theme="darcula"  from="1" to="6"}
```kotlin
class Day01(private val sonarReport: List<Int>) {
    fun part1(): Int =
        sonarReport
            .zipWithNext()
            .count { it.second > it.first }
}

fun main(): Unit = println(Day01(listOf(199, 200, 208, 210, 200, 207, 240, 269, 260, 263)).part1())
```

The `zipWithNext` function returns a list of pairs. Each pair contains the current depth and the next depth. The
`count` function counts the number of times the predicate returns `true`. The predicate is a lambda that receives
a pair of depths and returns `true` if the next depth is greater than the current depth.

Note: **predicate** is a fancy name for function that returns a boolean value.

This should give us our first star. 🌟

---

## Part 2

The second part of the problem requires us to group the depths in groups of three and count the number of times
the sum of the depths in the group increases. The `windowed` function is perfect for this problem. It returns a
list of lists. Each list contains the depths in a group of three.

Basically we need to add the `.windowed(size = 3, step = 1) { it.sum() }` before calling the `zipWithNext` function.

{: class="language-kotlin" theme="darcula" from="1" to="9"}
```kotlin
package com.codelicia.advent2021

class Day01(private val sonarReport: List<Int>) {
    fun part2(): Int =
        sonarReport
            .windowed(size = 3, step = 1) { it.sum() }
            .zipWithNext()
            .count { it.second > it.first }
}

fun main(): Unit = println(Day01(listOf(199, 200, 208, 210, 200, 207, 240, 269, 260, 263)).part2())
```

This should give us our second star. 🌟

TIL: submarines are safer than airplanes. Hence, you'll find lots of airplanes in the bottom of the ocean. But no 
submarines at the top of the sky.