---
layout: post
title: "✨ Advent of Code <2021 />"
author: Jefersson Nathan
date: Sat Apr 14 14:21:54 CEST 2023
categories: [ "post" ]
description: "Old challenges, new solutions: Advent of Code 2021"
---

🤓 Ah, the Advent of Code, a delightful quest for the intrepid programmer seeking to hone their craft! It presents two
problems each day, with the second being locked until the first is satisfactorily conquered.

The reward for success in this endeavor is not gold or silver, but rather a star ✨, symbolizing the hard-won victory
of the mind over matter. And what is the ultimate goal, you may ask? Why, it is to collect 50 such stars, a veritable
constellation of intellectual achievement! 🌟 — where else you could win such celestial prizes?

We, the illustrious at [codelicia](https://github.com/codelicia) have resolved to indulge in the delight of coding
challenges by revisiting the past **Advent of Codes**. Behold, we shall undertake
the [Aoc of 2021](https://adventofcode.com/2021)! In our wisdom, we have set forth certain common principles to govern
our endeavor. 🤓 We'll try to solve each day's puzzles with idiomatic and lucid solutions, but...

1. We prioritize crystal-clear code over speed/memory/whatever optimization.
2. Solutions of all participants will be posted on
   a [common repository](https://github.com/codelicia/adventofcode/tree/main/2021).
3. We have real-world obligations (job and family), so we'll deliver solutions every other day, but delays may happen.
   😅

---

## Advent of Code 2021

1. [Sonar Sweep]({% post_url 2023-04-19-advent-of-code-2021 %})
2. [Dive!]({% post_url 2023-05-06-advent-of-code-2021 %})
3. [Binary Diagnostic]({% post_url 2023-05-10-advent-of-code-2021 %})
4. [Giant Squid]({% post_url 2023-05-11-advent-of-code-2021 %})
5. [Hydrothermal Venture]({% post_url 2023-06-26-advent-of-code-2021-day-05 %})
6. [Lanternfish]({% post_url 2023-08-30-advent-of-code-2021-day-06 %})
7. [The Treachery Of Whales]({% post_url 2023-08-30-advent-of-code-2021-day-07 %})
8. [Seven Segment Search]({% post_url 2023-08-30-advent-of-code-2021-day-08 %})
9. --
10. --
11. --
12. --
13. --
14. --
15. [Chiton]({% post_url 2024-08-10-advent-of-code-2021-day-15 %})

