---
layout: post
title: "🎄 Advent of Code 2'023 - Day 06"
author: Jefersson Nathan
date: Mon Dec 06 00:00:01 CEST 2023
categories: [ "post" ]
description: "🎄 Advent of Code 2'023 - Day 06"
---

## Day 06: Wait For It

{: class="marginalia" }
\* Cf. [aoc. d. vi xxiii](https://adventofcode.com/2023/day/6)

Today's challenge was surprisingly easy in comparison to the previous ones.

The problem involves participating in toy boat races with a fixed time limit.
The goal is to maximize the distance traveled by adjusting the time the boat's button
is held down at the start. The races have different durations and existing record distances.
The challenge is to calculate the number of ways the boat can beat the record in each
race and find the product of these values.

We have a simple input that looks like this:

{: class="language-kotlin" theme="darcula" mode="c"}
```cpp
Time:      7  15   30
Distance:  9  40  200
```

The first line is the time limit of the race. The distance is the record distance for the
above race.

---

### Parsing The Input

{: class="marginalia" }
\* `using int64 = long long`;

We have very few numbers as the input, so we don't really need to do any parsing. I just added it to
a `vector` of `int64` * and I'm good to go.

{: class="language-kotlin" theme="darcula" mode="c"}
```cpp
vector<long long> A = { {61, 67, 75, 71}, {430, 1036, 1307, 1150} };
```

---

### PARS I

The only thing we need to figure out is the math behind the problem. If you spend `n` seconds
holding the button down, the boat will travel `n * (time - n)` distance. If this value is greater
than the record distance, the boat will beat the record. We just need to find the number of ways
to do this.

{: class="language-kotlin" theme="darcula" mode="c"}
```cpp
static int64 solve(const vector<int64> &times, const vector<int64> &distance) {
    vector<int64> A;
    for (int i = 0; i < times.size(); ++i) {
        int64 ans = 0;
        int64 n = 1;
        while (n < times[i]) {
            if ((n * (times[i] - n)) > distance[i]) ans++;
            n++;
        }
        A.push_back(ans);
    }

    int64 ans = 1;
    for (const int64 &i: A) ans *= i;

    return ans;
}
 ```

Here is a gift: 🌟

---

### PARS II

Surprisingly, part two can be solved using the same code as part one. We just need to change
the input. I've encapsulated the previous logic in the `solve` function, so I just need to
call it with the new input.

{: class="language-kotlin" theme="darcula" mode="c"}
```cpp
public:
    static int64 part1() {
        return solve({61, 67, 75, 71}, {430, 1036, 1307, 1150});
    }

    static int64 part2() {
        return solve({61677571ll}, {430103613071150ll});
    }
```

 We got them 🌟🌟

{% include micro.html content="
Click here to access the blogpost from [@fefas](https://blog.fefas.dev/advent-of-code-2023){: class='external no-highlight'}" %}